README.md, before:

<!-- cargo-rdme start -->

# CipherStash for DynamoDB

Based on the CipherStash SDK and ZeroKMS key service, CipherStash for DynamoDB provides a simple interface for
storing and retrieving encrypted data in DynamoDB.

## Playground

To easily try out CipherStash for DynamoDB, visit the [cipherstash-playground](https://github.com/cipherstash/cipherstash-playground) repo.

## Code status

[![Test suite](https://github.com/cipherstash/cipherstash-dynamodb/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cipherstash/cipherstash-dynamodb/actions/workflows/test.yml) [![Published documentation](https://github.com/cipherstash/cipherstash-dynamodb/actions/workflows/deploy-public-docs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cipherstash/cipherstash-dynamodb/actions/workflows/deploy-public-docs.yml)

Code documentation is available [here](https://cipherstash.com/rustdoc/cipherstash_dynamodb/index.html).

## Prerequisites

You will need to have completed the following steps before using CipherStash for DynamoDB:

1. [Create a CipherStash account](#step-1---create-a-cipherstash-account)
2. [Install the CLI](#step-2---install-the-cli)
3. [Login and create a Dataset](#step-3---create-a-dataset)
4. [Init ZeroKMS](#step-4---init-zerokms)

### Step 1 - Create a CipherStash account

To use CipherStash for DynamoDB, you must first [create a CipherStash account](https://cipherstash.com/signup).

### Step 2 - Install the CLI

The `stash` CLI tool is required to create and manage datasets and keys used for encryption and decryption.
Install the CLI by following the instructions in the [CLI reference doc](https://cipherstash.com/docs/reference/cli).

### Step 3 - Create a dataset and client key

To use CipherStash for DynamoDB, you must create a dataset and a client key.

1. [Create a dataset](https://cipherstash.com/docs/how-to/creating-datasets)
2. [Create a client key](https://cipherstash.com/docs/how-to/creating-clients)

### Step 4 - Init ZeroKMS

ZeroKMS uses a root key to encrypt and decrypt data.
This key is initialized on upload of a Dataset configuration.
This step is an artifact of the SQL implementation of CipherStash.
For now, it is sufficient to upload an empty configuration.

There is an empty `dataset.yml` in the root of the repository, ready to be uploaded.
Upload it to ZeroKMS using the following command:

```bash
stash datasets config upload --file dataset.yml --client-id $CS_CLIENT_ID --client-key $CS_CLIENT_KEY
```

## Usage

To use CipherStash for DynamoDB, you must first create a table in DynamoDB.
The table must have a at least partition key, sort key, and term field - all of type String.

CipherStash for DynamoDB also expects a Global Secondary Index called "TermIndex" to exist if you want to
search and query against records. This index should project all fields and have a key schema
that is a hash on the term attribute.

You can use the the `aws` CLI to create a table with an appropriate schema as follows:

```bash
aws dynamodb create-table \
    --table-name users \
    --attribute-definitions \
        AttributeName=pk,AttributeType=S \
        AttributeName=sk,AttributeType=S \
        AttributeName=term,AttributeType=B \
    --key-schema \
        AttributeName=pk,KeyType=HASH \
        AttributeName=sk,KeyType=RANGE \
    --provisioned-throughput ReadCapacityUnits=5,WriteCapacityUnits=5 \
    --global-secondary-indexes "IndexName=TermIndex,KeySchema=[{AttributeName=term,KeyType=HASH}],Projection={ProjectionType=ALL},ProvisionedThroughput={ReadCapacityUnits=5,WriteCapacityUnits=5}"
```

See below for more information on schema design for CipherStash for DynamoDB tables.

### Annotating a cipherstash-dynamodb Type

To use CipherStash for DynamoDB, you must first annotate a struct with the `Encryptable`, `Searchable` and
`Decryptable` derive macros.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Searchable, Decryptable, Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Searchable, Decryptable, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    name: String,
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
}
```

These derive macros will generate implementations for the following traits of the same name:

* `Decryptable` - a trait that allows you to decrypt a record from DynamoDB
* `Encryptable` - a trait that allows you to encrypt a record for storage in DynamoDB
* `Searchable`  - a trait that allows you to search for records in DynamoDB

The above example is the minimum required to use CipherStash for DynamoDB however you can expand capabilities via several macros.

### Controlling Encryption

By default, all fields on an annotated struct are stored encrypted in the table.

To store a field as a plaintext, you can use the `plaintext` attribute:

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Searchable, Decryptable, Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Searchable, Decryptable, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    name: String,

    #[cipherstash(plaintext)]
    not_sensitive: String,
}
```

If you don't want a field stored in the the database at all, you can annotate the field with `#[cipherstash(skip)]`.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Searchable, Encryptable, Decryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Searchable, Encryptable, Decryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    name: String,

    #[cipherstash(skip)]
    not_required: String,
}
```

If you implement the `Decryptable` trait these skipped fields need to implement `Default`.

### Sort keys

cipherstash-dynamodb requires every record to have a sort key. By default this will be derived based on the name of the struct.
However, if you want to specify your own, you can use the `sort_key_prefix` attribute:

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
#[cipherstash(sort_key_prefix = "user")]
struct User {
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    name: String,

    #[cipherstash(skip)]
    not_required: String,
}
```

#### Dynamic Sort keys

CipherStash for DynamoDB also supports specifying the sort key dynamically based on a field on the struct.
You can choose the field using the `#[sort_key]` attribute.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    #[sort_key]
    name: String,

    #[cipherstash(skip)]
    not_required: String,
}
```

Sort keys will contain that value and will be prefixed by the sort key prefix.

#### Explicit `pk` and `sk` fields

It's common in DynamoDB to use fields on your records called `pk` and `sk` for your partition
and sort keys. To support this behaviour these are treated as special keywords in cipherstash-dynamodb.
If your field contains a `pk` or an `sk` field they must be annotated with the `#[partition_key]` and `#[sort_key]` attributes respectively.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[partition_key]
    pk: String,
    #[sort_key]
    sk: String,

    #[cipherstash(skip)]
    not_required: String,
}
```

## Indexing

cipherstash-dynamodb supports indexing of encrypted fields for searching.
Exact, prefix and compound match types are currently supported.
To index a field, use the `query` attribute:

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[cipherstash(query = "exact")]
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    
   #[cipherstash(query = "prefix")]
    name: String,
}
```

You can also specify a compound index by using the `compound` attribute.
Indexes with the same name will be combined into the one index.

Compound index names must be a combination of field names separated by a #.
Fields mentioned in the compound index name that aren't correctly annotated will result in a
compilation error.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[cipherstash(query = "exact", compound = "email#name")]
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    
   #[cipherstash(query = "prefix", compound = "email#name")]
    name: String,
}
```

It's also possible to add more than one query attribute to support querying records in multiple
different ways.


```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[cipherstash(query = "exact")]
    #[cipherstash(query = "exact", compound = "email#name")]
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    
   #[cipherstash(query = "prefix")]
   #[cipherstash(query = "exact")]
   #[cipherstash(query = "prefix", compound = "email#name")]
    name: String,
}
```
It's important to note that the more annotations that are added to a field the more index terms that will be generated.
Adding too many attributes could result in a proliferation of terms and data.

The previous example for example would have the following terms generated:

- One term for the exact index on email
- One term for the exact index on name
- Up to 25 terms for the prefix index on name
- Up to 25 terms for the compound index of email and name

This would mean a total of 53 records would be inserted.

## Storing and Retrieving Records

Interacting with a table in DynamoDB is done via the [EncryptedTable] struct.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{EncryptedTable, Key};

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    let config = aws_config::from_env()
        .endpoint_url("http://localhost:8000")
        .load()
        .await;

    let client = aws_sdk_dynamodb::Client::new(&config);
    let table = EncryptedTable::init(client, "users").await?;

    Ok(())
}
```

All operations on the table are `async` and so you will need a runtime to execute them.
In the above example, we connect to a DynamoDB running in a local container and initialize an `EncryptedTable` struct
for the "users" table.

### Putting Records

To store a record in the table, use the [`EncryptedTable::put`] method:

```rust
let user = User::new("dan@coderdan", "Dan Draper");
table.put(user).await?;
```

To get a record, use the [`EncryptedTable::get`] method:

```rust

let user: Option<User> = table.get("dan@coderdan.co").await?;
```

The `get` method will return `None` if the record does not exist.
It uses type information to decrypt the record and return it as a struct.

### Deleting Records

To delete a record, use the [`EncryptedTable::delete`] method:

```rust
table.delete::<User>("jane@smith.org").await?;
```

### Querying Records

To query records, use the [`EncryptedTable::query`] method which returns a builder:

```rust
let results: Vec<User> = table
    .query()
    .starts_with("name", "Dan")
    .send()
    .await?;
```

If you have a compound index defined, CipherStash for DynamoDB will automatically use it when querying.

```rust
let results: Vec<User> = table
    .query()
    .eq("email", "dan@coderdan")
    .starts_with("name", "Dan")
    .send()
    .await?;
```

Note: if you don't have the correct indexes defined this query builder will return a runtime
error.

## Table Verticalization

CipherStash for DynamoDB uses a technique called "verticalization" which is a popular approach to storing data in DynamoDB.
In practice, this means you can store multiple types in the same table.

For example, you might want to store related records to `User` such as `License`.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{ Searchable, Encryptable, Decryptable, Identifiable };

#[derive(Debug, Searchable, Encryptable, Decryptable, Identifiable)]
struct License {
    #[cipherstash(query = "exact")]
    #[partition_key]
    user_email: String,

    #[cipherstash(plaintext)]
    license_type: String,

    #[cipherstash(query = "exact")]
    license_number: String,
}
```

### Data Views

In some cases, these types might simply be a different representation of the same data based on query requirements.
For example, you might want to query users by name using a prefix (say for using a "type ahead") but only return the name.

```rust

#[derive(Debug, Searchable, Encryptable, Decryptable, Identifiable)]
pub struct UserView {
    #[cipherstash(skip)]
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    
    #[cipherstash(query = "prefix")]
    name: String,
}
```

To use the view, you can first `put` and then `query` the value.

```rust
let user = UserView::new("dan@coderdan", "Dan Draper");
table.put(user).await?;
let results: Vec<UserView> = table
    .query()
    .starts_with("name", "Dan")
    .send()
    .await?;
```

So long as the indexes are equivalent, you can mix and match types.

## Internals

### Table Schema

Tables created by CipherStash for DynamoDB have the following schema:

```txt
PK        |  SK           |  term                  |   name       |  email   ....
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
HMAC(123) |  user         |                        |   Enc(name)  |  Enc(email)
HMAC(123) |  user#email   | STE("foo@example.net") |
HMAC(123) |  user#name#1  | STE("Mik")             |
HMAC(123) |  user#name#2  | STE("Mike")            |
HMAC(123) |  user#name#3  | STE("Mike ")           |
HMAC(123) |  user#name#4  | STE("Mike R")          |
```

`PK` and `SK` are the partition and sort keys respectively.
`term` is a global secondary index that is used for searching.
And all other attributes are dependent on the type.
They may be encrypted or otherwise.

### Source Encryption

CipherStash for DynamoDB uses the CipherStash SDK to encrypt and decrypt data.
Values are encypted using a unique key for each record using AES-GCM-SIV with 256-bit keys.
Key generation is performed using the ZeroKMS key service and bulk operations are supported making even large queries quite fast.

ZeroKMS's root keys are encrypted using AWS KMS and stored in DynamoDB (separate database to the data).

When self-hosting ZeroKMS, we recommend running it in different account to your main application workloads.

## Issues and TODO

- [ ] Sort keys are not currently hashed (but this may change in the future)

<!-- cargo-rdme end -->

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to CipherStash for DynamoDB.
We use `rdme` to generate the README and documentation, and there is a helper script to regenerate the README in the `scripts` directory `./scripts/generate-readme.sh`.

Commit message:

Update README with test instructions

README.md, after:

<!-- cargo-rdme start -->

# CipherStash for DynamoDB

Based on the CipherStash SDK and ZeroKMS key service, CipherStash for DynamoDB provides a simple interface for
storing and retrieving encrypted data in DynamoDB.

## Playground

To easily try out CipherStash for DynamoDB, visit the [cipherstash-playground](https://github.com/cipherstash/cipherstash-playground) repo.

## Code status

[![Test suite](https://github.com/cipherstash/cipherstash-dynamodb/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cipherstash/cipherstash-dynamodb/actions/workflows/test.yml) [![Published documentation](https://github.com/cipherstash/cipherstash-dynamodb/actions/workflows/deploy-public-docs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cipherstash/cipherstash-dynamodb/actions/workflows/deploy-public-docs.yml)

Code documentation is available [here](https://cipherstash.com/rustdoc/cipherstash_dynamodb/index.html).

## Prerequisites

You will need to have completed the following steps before using CipherStash for DynamoDB:

1. [Create a CipherStash account](#step-1---create-a-cipherstash-account)
2. [Install the CLI](#step-2---install-the-cli)
3. [Login and create a Dataset](#step-3---create-a-dataset)
4. [Init ZeroKMS](#step-4---init-zerokms)

### Step 1 - Create a CipherStash account

To use CipherStash for DynamoDB, you must first [create a CipherStash account](https://cipherstash.com/signup).

### Step 2 - Install the CLI

The `stash` CLI tool is required to create and manage datasets and keys used for encryption and decryption.
Install the CLI by following the instructions in the [CLI reference doc](https://cipherstash.com/docs/reference/cli).

### Step 3 - Create a dataset and client key

To use CipherStash for DynamoDB, you must create a dataset and a client key.

1. [Create a dataset](https://cipherstash.com/docs/how-to/creating-datasets)
2. [Create a client key](https://cipherstash.com/docs/how-to/creating-clients)

### Step 4 - Init ZeroKMS

ZeroKMS uses a root key to encrypt and decrypt data.
This key is initialized on upload of a Dataset configuration.
This step is an artifact of the SQL implementation of CipherStash.
For now, it is sufficient to upload an empty configuration.

There is an empty `dataset.yml` in the root of the repository, ready to be uploaded.
Upload it to ZeroKMS using the following command:

```bash
stash datasets config upload --file dataset.yml --client-id $CS_CLIENT_ID --client-key $CS_CLIENT_KEY
```

## Usage

To use CipherStash for DynamoDB, you must first create a table in DynamoDB.
The table must have a at least partition key, sort key, and term field - all of type String.

CipherStash for DynamoDB also expects a Global Secondary Index called "TermIndex" to exist if you want to
search and query against records. This index should project all fields and have a key schema
that is a hash on the term attribute.

You can use the the `aws` CLI to create a table with an appropriate schema as follows:

```bash
aws dynamodb create-table \
    --table-name users \
    --attribute-definitions \
        AttributeName=pk,AttributeType=S \
        AttributeName=sk,AttributeType=S \
        AttributeName=term,AttributeType=B \
    --key-schema \
        AttributeName=pk,KeyType=HASH \
        AttributeName=sk,KeyType=RANGE \
    --provisioned-throughput ReadCapacityUnits=5,WriteCapacityUnits=5 \
    --global-secondary-indexes "IndexName=TermIndex,KeySchema=[{AttributeName=term,KeyType=HASH}],Projection={ProjectionType=ALL},ProvisionedThroughput={ReadCapacityUnits=5,WriteCapacityUnits=5}"
```

See below for more information on schema design for CipherStash for DynamoDB tables.

### Annotating a cipherstash-dynamodb Type

To use CipherStash for DynamoDB, you must first annotate a struct with the `Encryptable`, `Searchable` and
`Decryptable` derive macros.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Searchable, Decryptable, Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Searchable, Decryptable, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    name: String,
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
}
```

These derive macros will generate implementations for the following traits of the same name:

* `Decryptable` - a trait that allows you to decrypt a record from DynamoDB
* `Encryptable` - a trait that allows you to encrypt a record for storage in DynamoDB
* `Searchable`  - a trait that allows you to search for records in DynamoDB

The above example is the minimum required to use CipherStash for DynamoDB however you can expand capabilities via several macros.

### Controlling Encryption

By default, all fields on an annotated struct are stored encrypted in the table.

To store a field as a plaintext, you can use the `plaintext` attribute:

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Searchable, Decryptable, Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Searchable, Decryptable, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    name: String,

    #[cipherstash(plaintext)]
    not_sensitive: String,
}
```

If you don't want a field stored in the the database at all, you can annotate the field with `#[cipherstash(skip)]`.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Searchable, Encryptable, Decryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Searchable, Encryptable, Decryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    name: String,

    #[cipherstash(skip)]
    not_required: String,
}
```

If you implement the `Decryptable` trait these skipped fields need to implement `Default`.

### Sort keys

cipherstash-dynamodb requires every record to have a sort key. By default this will be derived based on the name of the struct.
However, if you want to specify your own, you can use the `sort_key_prefix` attribute:

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
#[cipherstash(sort_key_prefix = "user")]
struct User {
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    name: String,

    #[cipherstash(skip)]
    not_required: String,
}
```

#### Dynamic Sort keys

CipherStash for DynamoDB also supports specifying the sort key dynamically based on a field on the struct.
You can choose the field using the `#[sort_key]` attribute.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    #[sort_key]
    name: String,

    #[cipherstash(skip)]
    not_required: String,
}
```

Sort keys will contain that value and will be prefixed by the sort key prefix.

#### Explicit `pk` and `sk` fields

It's common in DynamoDB to use fields on your records called `pk` and `sk` for your partition
and sort keys. To support this behaviour these are treated as special keywords in cipherstash-dynamodb.
If your field contains a `pk` or an `sk` field they must be annotated with the `#[partition_key]` and `#[sort_key]` attributes respectively.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[partition_key]
    pk: String,
    #[sort_key]
    sk: String,

    #[cipherstash(skip)]
    not_required: String,
}
```

## Indexing

cipherstash-dynamodb supports indexing of encrypted fields for searching.
Exact, prefix and compound match types are currently supported.
To index a field, use the `query` attribute:

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[cipherstash(query = "exact")]
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    
   #[cipherstash(query = "prefix")]
    name: String,
}
```

You can also specify a compound index by using the `compound` attribute.
Indexes with the same name will be combined into the one index.

Compound index names must be a combination of field names separated by a #.
Fields mentioned in the compound index name that aren't correctly annotated will result in a
compilation error.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[cipherstash(query = "exact", compound = "email#name")]
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    
   #[cipherstash(query = "prefix", compound = "email#name")]
    name: String,
}
```

It's also possible to add more than one query attribute to support querying records in multiple
different ways.


```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{Encryptable, Identifiable};

#[derive(Debug, Encryptable, Identifiable)]
struct User {
    #[cipherstash(query = "exact")]
    #[cipherstash(query = "exact", compound = "email#name")]
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    
   #[cipherstash(query = "prefix")]
   #[cipherstash(query = "exact")]
   #[cipherstash(query = "prefix", compound = "email#name")]
    name: String,
}
```
It's important to note that the more annotations that are added to a field the more index terms that will be generated.
Adding too many attributes could result in a proliferation of terms and data.

The previous example for example would have the following terms generated:

- One term for the exact index on email
- One term for the exact index on name
- Up to 25 terms for the prefix index on name
- Up to 25 terms for the compound index of email and name

This would mean a total of 53 records would be inserted.

## Storing and Retrieving Records

Interacting with a table in DynamoDB is done via the [EncryptedTable] struct.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{EncryptedTable, Key};

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    let config = aws_config::from_env()
        .endpoint_url("http://localhost:8000")
        .load()
        .await;

    let client = aws_sdk_dynamodb::Client::new(&config);
    let table = EncryptedTable::init(client, "users").await?;

    Ok(())
}
```

All operations on the table are `async` and so you will need a runtime to execute them.
In the above example, we connect to a DynamoDB running in a local container and initialize an `EncryptedTable` struct
for the "users" table.

### Putting Records

To store a record in the table, use the [`EncryptedTable::put`] method:

```rust
let user = User::new("dan@coderdan", "Dan Draper");
table.put(user).await?;
```

To get a record, use the [`EncryptedTable::get`] method:

```rust

let user: Option<User> = table.get("dan@coderdan.co").await?;
```

The `get` method will return `None` if the record does not exist.
It uses type information to decrypt the record and return it as a struct.

### Deleting Records

To delete a record, use the [`EncryptedTable::delete`] method:

```rust
table.delete::<User>("jane@smith.org").await?;
```

### Querying Records

To query records, use the [`EncryptedTable::query`] method which returns a builder:

```rust
let results: Vec<User> = table
    .query()
    .starts_with("name", "Dan")
    .send()
    .await?;
```

If you have a compound index defined, CipherStash for DynamoDB will automatically use it when querying.

```rust
let results: Vec<User> = table
    .query()
    .eq("email", "dan@coderdan")
    .starts_with("name", "Dan")
    .send()
    .await?;
```

Note: if you don't have the correct indexes defined this query builder will return a runtime
error.

## Table Verticalization

CipherStash for DynamoDB uses a technique called "verticalization" which is a popular approach to storing data in DynamoDB.
In practice, this means you can store multiple types in the same table.

For example, you might want to store related records to `User` such as `License`.

```rust
use cipherstash_dynamodb::{ Searchable, Encryptable, Decryptable, Identifiable };

#[derive(Debug, Searchable, Encryptable, Decryptable, Identifiable)]
struct License {
    #[cipherstash(query = "exact")]
    #[partition_key]
    user_email: String,

    #[cipherstash(plaintext)]
    license_type: String,

    #[cipherstash(query = "exact")]
    license_number: String,
}
```

### Data Views

In some cases, these types might simply be a different representation of the same data based on query requirements.
For example, you might want to query users by name using a prefix (say for using a "type ahead") but only return the name.

```rust

#[derive(Debug, Searchable, Encryptable, Decryptable, Identifiable)]
pub struct UserView {
    #[cipherstash(skip)]
    #[partition_key]
    email: String,
    
    #[cipherstash(query = "prefix")]
    name: String,
}
```

To use the view, you can first `put` and then `query` the value.

```rust
let user = UserView::new("dan@coderdan", "Dan Draper");
table.put(user).await?;
let results: Vec<UserView> = table
    .query()
    .starts_with("name", "Dan")
    .send()
    .await?;
```

So long as the indexes are equivalent, you can mix and match types.

## Internals

### Table Schema

Tables created by CipherStash for DynamoDB have the following schema:

```txt
PK        |  SK           |  term                  |   name       |  email   ....
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
HMAC(123) |  user         |                        |   Enc(name)  |  Enc(email)
HMAC(123) |  user#email   | STE("foo@example.net") |
HMAC(123) |  user#name#1  | STE("Mik")             |
HMAC(123) |  user#name#2  | STE("Mike")            |
HMAC(123) |  user#name#3  | STE("Mike ")           |
HMAC(123) |  user#name#4  | STE("Mike R")          |
```

`PK` and `SK` are the partition and sort keys respectively.
`term` is a global secondary index that is used for searching.
And all other attributes are dependent on the type.
They may be encrypted or otherwise.

### Source Encryption

CipherStash for DynamoDB uses the CipherStash SDK to encrypt and decrypt data.
Values are encypted using a unique key for each record using AES-GCM-SIV with 256-bit keys.
Key generation is performed using the ZeroKMS key service and bulk operations are supported making even large queries quite fast.

ZeroKMS's root keys are encrypted using AWS KMS and stored in DynamoDB (separate database to the data).

When self-hosting ZeroKMS, we recommend running it in different account to your main application workloads.

## Issues and TODO

- [ ] Sort keys are not currently hashed (but this may change in the future)

<!-- cargo-rdme end -->

## Running the tests

In order to run the tests you need to have the following variables set in your environment:

```sh
export CS_CLIENT_ID=<your client id>
export CS_CLIENT_KEY=<your client key>

// The following are required for using the local dynamo emulator
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=dynamo
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=dynamo
export AWS_REGION=ap-southeast-2
```

With these variables set, you're free to run the tests with the following command:

```sh
cargo test
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to CipherStash for DynamoDB.
We use `rdme` to generate the README and documentation, and there is a helper script to regenerate the README in the `scripts` directory `./scripts/generate-readme.sh`.
